[Music]
behold the bathroom it's your personal
sanctuary the place where you have lots
of time to wonder like why is it called
the John why not the Charlie why does
the door in public restrooms always open
inward and are my deepest bathroom fears
justified
get ready one at a time starting with
number one are the blow hand dryers
really better than paper no they're not
the air in a typical public restroom
isn't the cleanest thing on earth
because of open flush toilets you'll
understand why but I'll get back to that
when you use a hand dryer it can blow
bacteria around you even though the air
coming from it is perfectly clean stick
to paper towels if there's an option or
carry a small pack with you at all times
number two is it okay to flush cooking
grease down the toilet you know you
can't put it down the sink but maybe the
bigger pipes of the toilet can handle
your leftover grease no they can't it
all goes to the same place and in that
place grease congeals and sticks to the
pipes if it keeps building up in your
plumbing at some point you'll have to
call a plumber to fix a big greasy clog
just let your leftover oil cool down put
it in a closable bottle or jar and throw
it in the trash three why do some public
bathrooms tell you not to flush the
toilet paper
even though toilet paper is supposed to
break down when it gets wet there's
still a possibility of clogging if the
plumbing system isn't new or if you use
too much of it and where does a lot of
toilet paper get used public restrooms
bingo if you see such a sign do as
you're told and throw your use paper in
the bin unless you want TOI --let water
sloshing around your feet
for is it safe to use toilet paper
hanging from a roll the open flush
toilets and public restrooms don't have
a lid to block all the German
microscopic droplets that comes spewing
out with each flush it covers the floor
the walls the ceiling and the roll
hanging right next to you
experts say toilet paper has more
bacteria than an average toilet seat if
there's a bit hanging down don't use it
tear it off and roll some fresh paper
down for yourself and if the toilet
paper isn't in a metal or plastic holder
then beware and bring your own wipes 5
yr public toilet seats shaped like a u
the gap on the front of the seat that
makes it look like a horseshoe is there
because of plumbing codes since 1995 all
public toilets must have this open seat
the gap serves hygienic purposes your
skin in that region won't touch the
dirty seat six are some stalls cleaner
than others one rather dated 1995 study
suggests that people tend to choose
middle stalls more often does it make
the side ones cleaner perhaps just those
stalls get less traffic and thus less
filth but still they might get cleaned
less often or not as thoroughly by the
staff for the same reason and I guess
it's up to you which stall do you
usually use we'll do an updated study
down in the comments 7 do those toilet
seat covers protect you from germs well
sorry to disappoint you but not really
those seemingly life-saving covers don't
do much because they're absorbent
bacteria and viruses are tiny enough to
easily soak in through the paper the
covers are made of but good news
catching an infection from a toilet seat
is unlikely you should be worried about
that only if there's some wound on your
skin that comes into direct contact with
the seat
eight why don't stall doors reach the
floor well lots of reasons for that
first it's just cheaper less material
means less money spent second stalls
with such doors are easier to clean
staff can simply run their mop under the
door without opening and then closing it
the gap also lets you know if the stall
is occupied or not and it lets in more
ventilation and finally if you're out of
toilet paper your neighbor can help you
out 9 why do most doors and public
restrooms open inward imagine there's a
long line of people waiting for their
turn to go to the bathroom someone
leaves and opens the door outward
everyone would have to huddle to the
opposite wall even if there's no line an
unsuspecting person walking down the
hallway might be knocked to the floor by
the door and push to enter doors are
safer since they have hinges and a lock
on the inside this means there's no way
to get locked inside the bathroom
finally the door opening inward helps a
bit with the smell problem
fresh air gets wafted into the bathroom
every time the door swings in 10 why is
toilet paper white
just to be clear you can find toilet
paper in different colors on the market
but most manufacturers bleach it to make
it softer besides turning toilet paper
white makes its shelf life longer
bleachy makes sense but why don't they
color it later
well dyed toilet paper can potentially
irritate sensitive skin because of
chemicals and such paper would take
longer to decompose on top of that white
is usually associated with cleanliness
so many people choose it anyways number
11 why is the toilet sometimes called
the John no one knows for sure but some
think that this name appeared back in
the 16th century when Sir John Harington
invented Britain's first flushing toilet
others believed the toilet was called
cousin John even before Harrington why
cousin probably because the word reminds
us of something familiar and clothes 12
how do faucet and toilet sensors know
when to turn on and flush well they work
a lot like your TV remote control these
automatic fixtures use the same infrared
light in detectors those detectors
emitting a continuous beam notice when
infrared light is reflected from the
user there's a microchip that controls
all the work and helps reduce the chance
of false activation when someone simply
walks past the sink or toilet however
quite often the detectors scale up with
lime and calcium and and fail to work
properly
13 why does the toilet water move when
it's windy
everyone knows the plumbing is
underground so how can wind affect the
water in your commode in many homes
there's a vent pipe that goes outside to
the roof when the wind blows hard above
that pipe the air pressure in it is
lowered because of that the air tries to
escape from the pipe creating a slight
suction effect throughout the plumbing
system this makes the water level in the
bull drop a bit and go back to normal
every time the gust subsides this led to
that famous expression you normally hear
in bathrooms when someone exclaims there
she blows 14 yr toilets made of
porcelain this ceramic base material has
plenty of benefits porcelain is smooth
so there's no place for particles to get
stuck in the non-porous nature of the
material is great protection from
bacterial build-up what's more porcelain
lasts longer because it doesn't corrode
or oxidize the material is also easily
molded into different shapes which makes
it perfect for tanks lids and drains 15
why do American toilets have so much
water in them the water line in the
bowls baffles many visitors to the u.s.
you see there are different systems of
toilet flushing most European bathrooms
use a washdown system in which water
inside the tank is forced out through
water flowing from the rim of the bowl
most American toilets use a syphonix
system which forcibly draws toilet water
down the drain that and a higher water
line makes it easier to keep the bowl
clean and odors at a minimum 16 why do
your legs fall asleep when you sit on
the toilet you can sit comfortably for
quite a long time on a chair but only 15
minutes on the toilet will cause you
that pins-and-needles feeling in your
leg well this happens because when
you're on a chair your body weight is
distributed evenly on your back side
but when you run a toilet seat your
weight is mostly resting on your thighs
this compresses the nerves which hinders
blood flow to your legs that's never
good so don't sit on the toilet for too
long if you can help it yeah I know
there are times when you just can't
avoid it but hey if you learn something
new today then give the video a like and
share with a friend and here are some
other cool videos I think you'll enjoy
just click to the left or right and
remember stay on the bright side of life
[Music]